ಸಿ ಕೆ ನಾಗರಾಜ ರಾವ್  ರವರು ಕನ್ನಡ ಲೇಖಕರು, ನಾಟಕಕಾರರು, ರಂಗಮಂದಿರದ ನಟ, ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕ, ಪತ್ರಕರ್ತ ಮತ್ತು ಸಮಾಜವಾದಿಗಳಾಗಿದ್ದರು.
He was the first recipient of the Moortidevi Award instituted by Bharatiya Jnanpith for his magnum opus “Pattamahadevi Shantaladevi” in 1983. The same work received “Best Creative Literary Work” award by the Karnataka Sahitya Academy in 1978. C.K. Nagaraja Rao devoted his life to enrich and promote the arts, culture and history of Karnataka, India.
C.K. Nagaraja Rao was born on June 12, 1915 in Challakere, Chitradurga district to C.S. Krishnamurthy Rao and Smt. Puttamma. His childhood was spent in various cities around India and he developed a keen interest the rich art and cultural heritage of Karnataka, India. 
As a school boy, he volunteered to waited upon Mahatma Gandhi during his stay at Nandi Hills near Bangalore, India. The interaction with Gandhi and his close association with his uncle, Justice Nittoor Srinivasa Rao, instilled in him devotion for India’s freedom and welfare of its needy people. Rao’s literary career began when he won a school competition for his short story “Kaadu Mallige” about a Dalit music lover who was not allowed to sit with patrons from the upper castes during concerts.
He worked with Satya Shodhana Pustaka Bhandara, an Kannada book printer and publisher whose motto was the promotion of the rich cultural heritage of Karnataka. Under the guidance of his uncle Justice Nittor Srinivasa Rao, C.K. Nagaraja Rao had the opportunity to mingle with leading writers and literati of Karnataka. After a few years of work at Satya Shodhana, he took over responsibilities as secretary of the Kannada Sahitya Parishath and worked with influential writers like Masti Venkatesha Iyengar, B. M. Srikantaiah and others which further strengthened his resolve to delve deeper into the heritage of Karnataka.
The extensive research by C.K. Nagaraja Rao led to his publishing many research papers. Amongst his earliest research works was a book titled “Kavi Lakshmeeshana Kaala Mattu Sthala”, on the celebrated Kannada poet Lakshmeesha. The book won an award from the Karnataka Sahitya Academy for the research content. He also authored many research papers on the Chalukya, Ganga and Hoysala dynasties which were published in the journals of the Mythic Society and other journals and newspapers like Vani, Samyukta Karnataka, Praja Vaani etc.
His research into the Hoysala period, regarded as one of the golden periods in the history of Karnataka, led to the unearthing of stone inscriptions that shed light into the motherhood of Hoysala Queen Shantaladevi, thus debunking the myth that she committed suicide for being childless. Through his research he was able to establish that Queen Shantaladevi was the mother of three sons and a daughter. In the year 1977, he self -published his magnum opus “Pattamahadevi Shantaladevi”, a historical novel spanning 2162 pages. This work was hailed as “Gadya Mahakavya” by historians, critics and readers alike. Sri M.V. Kamat, the editor of Illustrated weekly of India lauded the novel as the biggest literary work ever published. The Hindi translation of this novel translated by Sri P. Venkatachala Sharma and published by Bharatiya Jnanapith has been well received. 
C.K. Nagaraja Rao wrote two additional novels “Veeraganga Vishnuvardhana” and “Dayada Daavanala?” that further chronicle the history and times of the Hoysala dynasty. These novels record the history through hundreds of characters, many historical, and some imaginary to strengthen the narration. He penned “Sri Pruthvi Vallabha”, covering the Chalukya dynasty and the period of their famous King Tailapa.
He formed his own troupe called United Artists in Bangalore. He directed plays of well-known Kannada playwrights like T.P. Kailasam, Kuppali Venkatappagowda Puttappa and others. He developed his own style of makeup for theatre artists and was recognised as one of the best make-up artists of his times. He was closely associated with All India Radio Bangalore as an actor and producer of radio plays.
