ಮ್ಯಾಂಡರಿನ್: ೧ ವೂ: ೧೨ ಕ್ಯಾಂಟೊನೀಸ್: ೧೮ ಮಿನ್: ೨೨ ಜಿಯಾಂಗ್: ೩೦ ಹಕ್ಕ: ೩೩ ಗಾನ್: ೩೮
ಚೀನಿ ಭಾಷೆ ಮೂಲತಃ ಹಾನ್ ಚೀನಿ ಜನರ ಭಾಷೆ. ಸಹಸ್ರಾರು ವರ್ಷಗಳ ಬೆಳವಣಗೆಯಿಂದ ಇದು ಅನೇಕ ಸ್ವರೂಪಗಳನ್ನು ಹೊಂದಿ ಇಂದು ಒಂದು ಭಾಷಾ ಕುಟುಂಬವೆನ್ನಬಹುದಾದಷ್ಟು ವೈವಿಧ್ಯ ಭಾಷೆಗಳ ಸಂಕಲನವಾಗಿದೆ. ಚೀನಿ-ಟಿಬೆಟನ್ ಮುಖ್ಯ ಭಾಷಾ ಕುಟುಂಬಕ್ಕೆ ಇದು ಸೇರಿದೆ. About one-sixth of the world’s population, or over one billion people, speak some form of Chinese as their native language. The identification of the varieties of Chinese as "languages" or "dialects" is controversial. As a language family Chinese has an estimated nearly 1.2 billion speakers; Mandarin Chinese alone has around 851 million native speakers, outnumbering any other language in the world.
Spoken Chinese is distinguished by its high level of internal diversity, though all spoken varieties of Chinese are tonal and analytic. There are between six and twelve main regional groups of Chinese, of which the most populous is Mandarin, followed by Wu, Min and Cantonese . Most of these groups are mutually unintelligible, though some, like Xiang and the Southwest Mandarin dialects, may share common terms and some degree of intelligibility. Chinese is classified as a macrolanguage with thirteen sub-languages in ISO 639-3, though the identification of the varieties of Chinese as multiple "languages" or as "dialects" of a single language is a contentious issue.
The standardized form of spoken Chinese is Standard Mandarin "普通话/普通話 ; 国语/國語 ", based on the Beijing dialect. Standard Mandarin is the official language of the People's Republic of China, the Republic of China in Taiwan, as well as one of four official languages of Singapore. Chinese—de facto, Standard Mandarin—is one of the six official languages of the United Nations. Of the other varieties, Standard Cantonese is common and influential in Cantonese-speaking overseas communities, and remains one of the official languages of Hong Kong and of Macau . Min Nan, part of the Min language group, is widely spoken in southern Fujian, in Taiwan and in Southeast Asia .
The map below depicts the linguistic subdivisions within China itself. The traditionally-recognized seven main groups, in order of population size are:
