
ದಾರಾ ಸಿಂಗ್ ಭಾರತೀಯ ಕುಸ್ತಿಪಟುವಿನಿಂದ ನಟರಾಗಿ ಬದಲಾದ ಭಾರತದ ಪಂಜಾಬ್‌ನ ಭಾರತೀಯ. ಇವರು ೧೯೫೨ ರಲ್ಲಿ ನಟನೆಯನ್ನು ಪ್ರಾರಂಭಿಸಿದರು ಮತ್ತು ರಾಜ್ಯಸಭೆಗೆ ಆಯ್ಕೆಯಾದ ಮೊದಲ ಕ್ರೀಡಾಪಟು. ತಮ್ಮ ವೃತ್ತಿ ಜೀವನದಲ್ಲಿ ಹಿಂದಿ ಹಾಗೂ ಪಂಜಾಬಿ ಸಿನಿಮಾಗಳ ನಿರ್ಮಾಪಕರು, ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು ಹಾಗೂ ಬರಹಗಾರರಾಗಿ ಕಾರ್ಯನಿರ್ವಹಿಸಿದ್ದಾರೆ. ಇವರು ಭಾರತೀಯ ದೂರದರ್ಶನದಲ್ಲೂ ನಟನಾಗಿ ಕೆಲಸ ನಿರ್ವಹಿಸಿದ್ದಾರೆ.
Dara Singh was born on 19 November in 1928 in the village of Dharmuchak, which was then a part of British Punjab and as of 2012 is in Amritsar district. His birthname was Deedar Singh Randhawa and his parents — Surat Singh and Balwant Kaur — were Jat Sikhs.
As an adult he was 6 feet 2 inches tall, weighed 132 kilograms and had a chest measurement of 54 inches . Due to his physique, he was encouraged to take up Pehlwani, an Indian style of wrestling. He wrestled by invitation of the kings of Indian princely states and wrestled frequently in haats and melas .
Singh left his village for Singapore in 1948.
His last tournament, where he announced his retirement, was held in Delhi in 1983, inaugurated by Rajiv Gandhi and the winning trophy was presented by Giani Zail Singh. In 1996 he was inducted into the Wrestling Observer Newsletter Hall of Fame.
He started his career as an actor in 1952 with Sangdil. He was confined to B-grade roles for many years and played his first lead role in Babubhai Mistry's film King Kong . From around 1963 he partnered often with Mumtaz. With her he performed in 16 Hindi films and the couple became the highest-paid B-grade actors, with Singh receiving nearly four lakh rupees per film. He then went on to do television in the late 1980s, where he played the role of Hanuman in the television adaptation of the Hindu epic Ramayan. He was liked more in the role of 'Bheem Sen' in films like Veer Bheem Sen and Ramayan and in role of 'Hanuman' both in films and TV serial. He worked with Prathviraj Kapoor in Sikander-e-Aazam, Khakaan, Lootera, Daku Mangalsingh and Insaaf. He also played the Alexander in Sikander-e-Aazam. He worked in some television serial shows, including Had Kar Di which was aired on Zee TV and Kyaa Hoga Nimmo Kaa for StarOne. His last Hindi movie was Jab We Met and last Punjabi movie released before his illness was Dil Apna Punjabi. He acted in National Award winning film Main Maa Punjab Dee directed by Balwant Singh Dullat. He directed seven Punjabi films of which Sawa Lakh Se Ek Ladaun, Nanak Dukhiya Sub Sansar, Dhyanu Bhagat, Rab Dian Rakhan were commercial hits, and directed two films in Hindi, Bhakti Mein Shakti and Rustom . His directorial venture Bhakti Mein Shakti, a mythological film, completed a record run at Delhi's Imperial Cinema in 1978. He produced 8 films and wrote the story for 7 films. These films were produced and directed under the banner "Dara Film" which he setup in 1970.
ಸಿಂಗ್ ಅವರು ಮೊಹಾಲಿ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆ, ಪಂಜಾಬ್ ನಲ್ಲಿಯ ದಾರಾ ಸ್ಟುಡಿಯೋ  ಮಾಲೀಕರು ಸಹ ಆಗಿದ್ದರು. ದಾರಾ ಫಿಲ್ಮ್ ಸ್ಟುಡಿಯೋ 1978 ರಲ್ಲಿ ಸ್ಥಾಪಿತವಾಗಿತು. ಈ ಚಲನಚಿತ್ರ ಸ್ಟುಡಿಯೋ 1980 ರಿಂದ ಕಾರ್ಯನಿರತವಾಗಿದೆ.
Singh became the first sportsman to be nominated to the Rajya Sabha - the upper house of the Parliament of India. He served in that role between 2003 and 2009. He was also president of the Jat Mahasabha.
He was admitted in Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital on 7 July 2012 following a cardiac arrest. He was released from hospital on 11 July in deference to the wishes of his family. He died on 12 July 2012 at his home in Mumbai. He was cremated at Juhu crematorium.
Dara Singh married twice. He had a son, Parduman Singh Randhawa, from his first marriage and from his second marriage he had five children: two sons and three daughters including Vindu Dara Singh, who is a film and television actor.
Other awards and accomplishments of Dara Singh are:

